[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Billions and billions and
billions of dollars have been
spent on cancer research.
There has been
very little change
in survival rates for cancer
patients, particularly
the survival rate
after five years.
The five year or
better survival rate
for almost all forms of cancer
is unchanged for the last four
decades.
That's pretty sad.
Enough sadness.
Now for the good part.
When we look at high doses of
vitamin C given intravenously
as an actual
chemotherapeutic agent,
we have wonderful, uplifting
news for every cancer patient
in the world.
And it's easy and safe.
And did I say inexpensive?
To have a physician give an IV.
You just have to insist on it.
I believe in the next 10 years,
this will become more accepted.
But people with cancer
can't afford to wait.
And the ones that
are already dead
have been grossly mistreated
by the medical profession
and by the government that
supposedly is supposed
to encourage free
research and development
of all possibilities.
The war against
cancer has been fought
with one arm behind the back.
And I would never
go into the ring
with the heavyweight
champion of the world
and fight with one arm.
And yet, by restricting
cancer research and cancer
treatment to basically drug,
surgery, radiation approaches,
and not considering
nutrition seriously,
we've done a terrible
disservice to all these people.
There's student at the Brigham
hospital in Boston, which
is right next to Harvard Med.
Even then back in 1974,
it was a crisis hospital.
There were more
doctors and patients.
It was really a grim place.
And I got a chance
to observe and to see
the failure of medicine.
You would see people,
like the one woman
I remember with leukemia.
And they would give her
jello and white bread to eat.
Now I'm not saying that jello
and white bread cause cancer,
but they sure aren't the cure.
Nursing homes.
You visit a nursing home.
You see what they feed people.
Hospital food.
Even school lunch food.
Is it really good for you?
What would happen
if everybody ate
lots and lots of fresh,
organic food that
was minimally processed?
I think we'd have an
epidemic of health.
I think the stock
market would tremble.
The drug industry is a
half trillion dollar a year
worldwide conglomerate.
Almost $300 billion
just in North America.
This is really,
really big business.
What would happen if
everybody were well?
There is no money in health.
You see, good health
makes a lot of sense,
but it doesn't make
a lot of dollars.
The profit is in disease.
That's where the
economics favorite.
And people that are healthy
don't go to doctors.
The curious thing there is that
if you go on patient reports--
and this helped this person,
it helped this person,
that is a powerful way
to learn and to persuade.
And yet, ironically,
the medical profession
tends to discount
those as anecdotes
because they haven't been
double blind placebo tested.
Now the curious
thing about this is
that most medical
interventions have never been
double blind placebo tested.
For instance, do you really
think that radiation for cancer
was double blind placebo tested?
Do you really think
that they had two rooms,
and one room was the
real radiation machine,
and the other room was a
phony one that looked the same
and had the same lights?
I don't think so.
Vaccinations were not
double blind placebo tested.
They tried the
vaccination, and then they
looked at physician reports to
see if fewer kids got polio.
We have an interesting
setup here.
The medical profession can
say, it's just an anecdote.
And therefore, somehow, the
fact that that person got better
doesn't count.
But if it's double blind
placebo controlled,
that's the gold standard.
What I try to do in
my work-- my books,
my website, and even the Journal
of Orthomolecular Medicine,
is to provide motivation.
Tell people that you
don't have to be sick.
It's a choice.
And I'm not blaming the
patient when I say that.
If you take a person who's
sick and say, oh, well,
you chose to be
sick, that's not it.
What we're really saying
is, if you're well,
you have a choice
to be well or sick.
If you're sick, all
right, there you are.
What happened yesterday,
last week, last month
doesn't matter.
Start now.
Reverse it.
You don't have stay sick.
We're not really that
interested in what
you did because what
you did didn't work.
So try something new.
The old idea that if you
always do what you always did,
you'll always get
what you always got.
The good news is that people
are not a bunch of dummies.
Abraham Lincoln expressed
that when he said,
you can fool some of the
people all of the time and all
of the people some
of the time, but you
can't fool all of the
people all of the time.
And that's why over
half of the population
now takes vitamins, even
though most doctors would say
that it's really not necessary.
We have a public that's
catching on quicker
than the medical professions.
In a way, it's sad.
But in a way, it's great.
People should stop
being patients
and start being people.
Why not be healthy and happy?
Why not?
You change your life, you do
some exercise, you eat right,
you feel better.
All right, that's good.
You look better.
You live longer.
That's good.
You save money.
And you have the
enormous satisfaction
of having done it yourself.
People think, I don't
have a medical education,
I can't know this.
Oh, please.
How complicated is it
to eat right, and drink
vegetable juices, and exercise?
You don't need any
degree to know that.
It's too simple to work.
It's cheap.
It's simple.
It's safe.
It's effective.
And therefore, it can't
possibly be the answer.
But it is.